Welcome back. You'll now see
some advantages of
recurrent neural networks,
also known as RNNs,
and you'll see that using them,
you can capture some dependencies
that you could not have otherwise
captured with your traditional
n-gram language model.
So let's dive in. You've
already got the general idea
behind completion so let's
look at the following example.
Nour was supposed
to study with me.
I called her, but
she did not blank.
If you used a traditional
language model,
like a trigram, to try and
complete the sentence,
you would compare different word
probabilities and then select
the word with the highest chance
of following the words did not.
For instance, your model
might choose the word have,
because it is highly
probable to see
that sequence of three words
in a typical text corpus.
However, the use of
have in the sentence
doesn't make any sense.
As a better alternative,
RNNs aren't limited to
looking at just the
previous n words.
They propagate information from
the beginning of the
sentence to the end.
So if you trained an
RNN for this task,
you'd get a better prediction,
the word answer, even though
that word is less probable.
If you wanted to have a n-gram
capable of completing
sentences like this one,
you would have to account
for six-word-long sequences,
which is pretty impractical.
To see how recurrent
neural networks work,
take the second sentence
from the last example.
I called her but
she did not blank.
A plain RNN propagates
information
from the beginning of the
sentence through to the end,
starting with the first
word of the sequence,
the hidden value at the far
left and the first values
are computed here.
Then it propagates some of
the computed information,
takes the second word
in the sequence,
and gets new values.
You can see this process
illustrated here.
The orange area denotes
the first computed values
and the green denotes
the second word.
The second values
are computed using
the older values in orange
and the new word in green.
After that, it takes
the third word and
the propagated values from
the first and second words,
and computes another set of
values from both of
those and so on.
Each of the boxes in this diagram
represents the
computations made at
each step and the
colors represent
the information that is
used for every computation.
As you can see, the
computations made at
the last step have information
from all the words
in the sentence.
At the final step,
the recurrent neural network is
able to predict the word answer.
The magic of recurrent
neural networks
is that the information from
every word in the sequence
is multiplied by the same weight,
W subscript of X,
The information propagates it
from the beginning to the end.
It is multiplied by W
subscript H. In other words,
this block is repeated for
every word in the sequence.
So the only learnable
parameters are
the ones in W subscript X,
W subscript H, and W
- the weights used to make
the final prediction.
That's why they're called
recurrent neural networks.
They compute values that
are fed over and over again
to themselves until a
prediction is made.
The principle advantage of
RNNs is that they propagate
information within sequences and
the computations share
most of the parameters.
Here, you saw an example of
an RNN that's propagated
information from
the beginning to the end of
a word sequence to make a
single prediction at the end.
Next, you will see
different types of RNNs,
the math behind
simple architectures,
and the way to implement them.
You now know when you
would like to use an RNN.
In the next video, I'll show you
different types of
RNN architectures.
And I'll also show you
when to use which.